Package in Salesforce
As per my understanding the word package is similar to jotting up everything and putting in a box. 
So in Salesforce, a package is a container that allows you to bundle together custom metadata, code, and other components into a single, distributable unit. 
Salesforce packages are not just limited to code and metadata. They can also include components like custom settings, email templates, reports, 
  dashboards, and even lightning components. The versatility makes packages a powerful tool for developers looking to share a wide range of customizations with 
    others in a structured and organized manner.

A package is a container for something as small as an individual component or as large as a set of related apps. 
After creating a package, you can distribute it to other Salesforce users and organizations, including those outside
your company. An organization can create a single managed package that can be downloaded and installed by many different
organizations. Managed packages differ from unmanaged packages by having some locked components, 
allowing the managed package to be upgraded later. 
Unmanaged packages do not include locked components and cannot be upgraded.


Managed packages
These packages are primarily distributed through the Salesforce AppExchange, which ensures they meet quality standards and undergo a security review. 
They are intended for production-ready applications and pre-built functionalities that don't need to be modified.
Unmanaged packages
These packages can be installed from various sources, including Salesforce AppExchange, GitHub, or directly from a URL. 
They are typically used for sharing customizations, open-source solutions, or sample code.

Security
Managed packages offer security and protect components, while unmanaged packages have no built-in security. 
Customization
Unmanaged packages are fully customizable, while managed packages are intended for pre-built functionalities. 
Distribution
Managed packages are primarily distributed through the Salesforce AppExchange, while unmanaged packages can be installed from various sources. 
Cost
Unmanaged packages don't have licensing or distribution costs because they aren't distributed on AppExchange. 
Upgradability
Managed packages can be upgraded without modifying your org, while unmanaged packages cannot be upgraded once a new version is released.

Unlocked packages offer more advanced dependency management features. Source code access: Unlocked packages provide access to the source code,
while unmanaged packages do not.
Components in unmanaged packages are customizable. While the components of managed packages are locked, 
and cannot be modified by the installing organization. 
Fields and Objects	The installing organization can add, edit, or delete.	Cannot be modified, but the installer can add new ones
Apex classes, and triggers	The installer can modify.	The installer cannot access or change Apex classes and triggers.
Visualforce pages and components	The installer can edit or modify the markup and controller of the Visualforce pages and components.	
The installer can modify the Visualforce pages and components.
Lightning components and applications	The installer can edit the code, and configure.	Can’t be modified by the installer.
Flows and processes	Can be edited or deleted by the installer.	Cannot be modified. 
The installer can only activate or deactivate them.

Unmanaged packages can be easily installed from the link or file shared by the developer. 
The developer can share the package with anyone. The installer does not need a Salesforce account or the AppExchange.
Managed packages, on the other hand, can be installed either through the install link shared by the developer or from AppExchange. 
The installer needs a Salesforce account and the AppExchange or a link to install the package. 
The developer can limit access to the package and monitor the installation data.


Managed packages are used by Salesforce partners to distribute and sell applications to customers.
Using AppExchange and the License Management Application (LMA), developers can sell and manage user-based licenses
to their app. Managed packages are upgradeable.
You’ve been using first-generation managed packages to develop your apps, so you’re probably pretty familiar with what 
works well, and what’s a bit more painful than you’d like. And no doubt, you’re aware that second-generation managed 
packages is our newer technology, but maybe you aren’t so sure why switching to second-generation managed packaging
(managed 2GP) will improve your package development experience. So let’s talk about that.
